# Second Schedule (Section 57)

> SECOND SCHEDULE
>
> (_Section_ 57)
>
> <span class="smallcaps">Savings and Transitional Provisions</span>

1.  In this Schedule “ Society ” means the Computer Society of Zambia
    registered under the Societies Act.

2.  \(1\) For the avoidance of doubt, a person who, before the
    commencement of this Act, was an employee of the Society, shall be
    an employee of the Association as if employed under this Act.

<!-- -->

1.  The service of the persons referred to in subparagraph (1) shall be
    treated as continuous service.

2.  Nothing in this Act, affects the rights and liabilities of any
    employee employed by the Society before the commencement of this
    Act.

<!-- -->

1.  \(1\) On or after the appointed date, there shall be transferred to,
    vest in and subsist against the Association by virtue of this Act
    and without further assurance, all assets, rights and obligations
    which immediately before that date were the assets, rights,
    liabilities and obligations of the Society.

<!-- -->

1.  Subject to subparagraph (1), every deed, bond and agreement, other
    than an agreement for personnel service, to which the Society, was a
    party immediately before the commencement of this Act, whether or
    not of such a nature that rights, liabilities and obligations could
    be assigned, shall unless its subject matter or terms make it
    impossible that it should have effect as modified, as provided under
    this paragraph, have effect as if—

    1.  the Association, had been party to it;

    2.  for any reference to the Society there was substituted, with
        respect to anything falling to be done on or after the appointed
        date, a reference to the Association; or

    3.  for any reference to any officer of the Society not being a
        party to it and beneficially interested, there were substituted,
        as respects anything falling to be done on or after the
        appointed date, a reference to such officer of the Association,
        as the Association shall designate.

> Definition Cap. 119
>
> Staff of Association
>
> Transfer of assets and liabilities
>
> Legal proceedings
>
> Members of Association

1.  Where under this Act, any assets, rights, liabilities and
    obligations of the Society, are deemed to be transferred to the
    Association, in respect of which transfer a written law provides for
    registration, the Association shall make an application in writing
    to the appropriate registration authority for registration of the
    transfer.

2.  The registration authority, referred to in subparagraph (3), shall
    make such entries in the appropriate register as shall give effect
    to the transfer and, where applicable, issue to the transferee
    concerned a certificate of title in respect of the property or make
    necessary amendments to the register and shall endorse the deeds
    relating to the title, right or obligation concerned and no
    registration fees or other duties shall be payable in respect of the
    transaction.

<!-- -->

1.  \(1\) Any legal proceedings pending immediately before the appointed
    date by or against the Society, may be continued by or against the
    Association.

> \(2\) After the commencement of this Act, proceedings in respect of
> any right, liability or obligation which was vested in, held, enjoyed,
> incurred or suffered by the Society, may be continued by or against
> the Association.

1.  A person who before the commencement of this Act was a member of the
    Society shall continue to be a member as if registered under this
    Act.
